Documentation to Remove/Replace KindOfQuantity from an ECProperty (#6634)
iTwin/itwinjs-core: docs/bis/ec/update-koq-on-property.md

> # KindOfQuantity

Reviewer: This file should be linked to from the main KOQ page

#### Valid `AllowUnitChange` [Custom Attribute](./ec-custom-attributes.md)

```xml
<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double'>
	<ECCustomAttributes>
		<AllowUnitChange xmlns="SchemaUpgradeCustomAttributes.01.00.00">
			<From>u:CM</From>
			<To></To>
		</AllowUnitChange>
	</ECCustomAttributes>
</ECProperty>
```

#### Invalid/malformed `AllowUnitChange` [Custom Attribute](./ec-custom-attributes.md)

```xml
<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double' />
```

```xml
<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double'>
	<ECCustomAttributes>
		<AllowUnitChange xmlns="SchemaUpgradeCustomAttributes.01.00.00">
		</AllowUnitChange>
	</ECCustomAttributes>
</ECProperty>
```

```xml
<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double'>
	<ECCustomAttributes>
		<AllowUnitChange xmlns="SchemaUpgradeCustomAttributes.01.00.00">
			<From>u:CM</From>
		</AllowUnitChange>
	</ECCustomAttributes>
</ECProperty>
```

```xml
<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double'>
	<ECCustomAttributes>
		<AllowUnitChange xmlns="SchemaUpgradeCustomAttributes.01.00.00">
			<From>u:M</From>
			<To></To>
		</AllowUnitChange>
	</ECCustomAttributes>
</ECProperty>

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think you need all these explicit examples.  Just briefly explain that From must be set to the source unit and To must be there but empty.

## Replacing KindOfQuantity of a property

Changing the KindOfQuantity of an ECProperty to another KindOfQuantity with a different persistence unit is allowed by using the `AllowUnitChange` [Custom Attribute](./ec-custom-attributes.md) on the property. However, `AllowUnitChange` [Custom Attribute](./ec-custom-attributes.md) must have non-empty From and To properties.

Additionally, the 'From' value must match the persistence unit from the old KindOfQuantity and the 'To' value must match the persistence unit from the new KindOfQuantity.

> 

Reviewer 2: This article should also clarify that existing values on the property will not be changed automatically upon a KOQ update.

Reviewer: I agree

Reviewer: now covered in my overview suggestion

				displayLabel='KindOfQuantity2' persistenceUnit='u:M' relativeError='.2'
				presentationUnits='f:AmerFI[u:FT][u:IN]' />
<ECEntityClass typeName='Foo' >
	<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double' kindOfQuantity='KindOfQuantity2' >
		<ECCustomAttributes>
			<AllowUnitChange xmlns="SchemaUpgradeCustomAttributes.01.00.00">
				<From>u:CM</From>
			</AllowUnitChange>
		</ECCustomAttributes>
	</ECProperty>
</ECEntityClass>
```

```xml
<KindOfQuantity typeName='KindOfQuantity1' description='KindOfQuantity1'
				displayLabel='KindOfQuantity1' persistenceUnit='u:CM' relativeError='.5'
				presentationUnits='f:AmerFI[u:FT][u:IN]' />
<KindOfQuantity typeName='KindOfQuantity2' description='KindOfQuantity2'
				displayLabel='KindOfQuantity2' persistenceUnit='u:M' relativeError='.2'
				presentationUnits='f:AmerFI[u:FT][u:IN]' />
<ECEntityClass typeName='Foo' >
	<ECProperty propertyName='Length' typeName='double' kindOfQuantity='KindOfQuantity2' >
		<ECCustomAttributes>
			<AllowUnitChange xmlns="SchemaUpgradeCustomAttributes.01.00.00">
				<From>u:CM</From>
				<To></To>
			</AllowUnitChange>
		</ECCustomAttributes>
	</ECProperty>
</ECEntityClass>

> ```

Reviewer: Same here, no need to explicitly show all invalid options ... just list what the requirements are

# Updating KindOfQuantity on an ECProperty

> This document provides instructions for iModel users on how to remove or replace a [KindOfQuantity (KoQ)](./kindofquantity.md) associated with an [ECProperty](./ec-property.md) in an iModel schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides instructions for iModel users on how to change a properties persistence unit by removing or replacing the [KindOfQuantity (KoQ)](./kindofquantity.md) associated with an [ECProperty](./ec-property.md) in an iModel schema.
```

> **Note**: Removing or Replacing KindOfQuantity from a property does not alter other attributes or the fundamental data type of the property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview

Normally changing the persistence unit of a property is not supported unless you change the major schema version.  So you can change the KOQ applied to a property so long as it does not change the persistence unit.  Applying the `AllowUnitChange` custom attribute to a property allows you to change the persistence unit with only a minor version change.  

| Change | AllowUnitChange required|
|-|-|
| Add KOQ to property that has none | not required |
| Change KOQ to KOQ with same persistence unit | not required |
| Remove KOQ from property that has one | required |
| Change KOQ to KOQ with different persistence unit | required | 

The `AllowUnitChange` custom attribute is intended for cases where the persistence unit is incorrect but the persisted value is correct.  Changing the persistence unit only updates the metadata, it **does not transform existing values**.  If conversion is needed you must do it yourself and consider updating the write (middle) schema version to make it clear that the persisted data format has changed.
```
